Webhook proposal (#1455)
operator-framework/operator-sdk: doc/proposals/webhook-proposal.md

> ## Webhook Support

Reviewer: Could we change it to use the template? WDYT?

## Webhook Support

Implementation Owner: theishshah

Status: Draft

[Background](#Background)

[Goals](#Goals)

[Design overview](#Design_overview)

[User facing usage](#User_facing_usage)

[Observations and open questions](#Observations_and_open_questions)

### Background

> The upcoming stable version of controller runtime has support for running a webhook server and having webhooks to mutate or validate pods. The mutation webhook can change various attributes of a pod, and the validation webhook can read pod attributes and allow/deny a pod to run based on this information. 

Reviewer 2: Can we specify the version here, e.g.:
```suggestion
The `v0.2.0` of controller runtime has support for running a webhook server and having webhooks to mutate or validate pods. The mutation webhook can change various attributes of a pod, and the validation webhook can read pod attributes and allow/deny a pod to run based on this information. 
```

### Goals

The goal of this proposal is to add the abilty for users to quickly add a webhook server and only implement the validation/mutation logic for their webhooks. Ideally this will support per-API webhooks, however, the proposal is not there yet.

### Design overview

All of the necesary files and changes for the generated operator occur in the `cmd/manager/` directory.

> osdk-webhook.go will be responsible for containing the logic to start up a webhook server, including a `webhookServer` struct to contain the necesary information to start the server.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`osdk-webhook.go` will be responsible for containing the logic to start up a webhook server, including a `webhookServer` struct to contain the necesary information to start the server.
```

> The webhook initilization logic function will be a function which returns successfully _without_ starting the server if the user does not enable webhook support via the command line (planned command is `$ operator-sdk generate webhooks`, more detail is outlined in the next section). If a user chooses to generate webhooks, the osdk-webhook.go file will be overwritten with a new file to contain a server init function with full functionality. Additionally it will generate the server information struct populated with the deafult values. Controller runtime defaults for these values are `Port: 9876` and `CertDir: "/tmp/cert"`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The webhook initialization logic function will be a function which returns successfully _without_ starting the server if the user does not enable webhook support via the command line (planned command is `$ operator-sdk generate webhooks`, more detail is outlined in the next section). If a user chooses to generate webhooks, the osdk-webhook.go file will be overwritten with a new file to contain a server init function with full functionality. Additionally it will generate the server information struct populated with the default values. Controller runtime defaults for these values are `Port: 9876` and `CertDir: "/tmp/cert"`.
```

```go
type webhookServer struct {
    Port int
    CertDir string
} 
```

> The initialization function will be called in the main.go file, regardless of whether or not a user opts in, however no actions are taken unless the user chooses to generate webhooks.

Reviewer 2: > regardless of whether or not a user opts in

Can you elaborate on this, when will this take place, during which step of the generation?

```go
func WebhookInit() error {
    log.Info("Starting webhook server")
    hookServer := &webhook.Server{
        Port: hookServerCfg.Port,
        CertDir: hookServerCfg.CertDir,
    }
    
    if err := mgr.Add(hookServer); err != nil {
        log.Error(err, "Unable to register webhook server")
        return err
    }

    log.Info("Registering webhooks to the webhook server")
    
    hookServer.Register("/mutate-pods", &webhook.Admission{Handler: &podAnnotator{}})
    hookServer.Register("/validate-pods", &webhook.Admission{Handler: &podValidator{}})
    
    return nil
}
```

> In addition to the above file being used to start up the server, an additional  files (`mutationswebhook.go` and `validationwebhooks.go`) will generated when the user chooses to include webhooks. These are the files which have the necesary boilerplate for a user to implement the `Handle` function in order to run custom logic on validation and admission of pods.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In addition to the above file being used to start up the server, additional  files (`mutationswebhook.go` and `validationwebhooks.go`) will generated when a user chooses to include webhooks. These are the files which have the necessary boilerplate for a user to implement the `Handle` function in order to run custom logic on validation and admission of pods.
```

	pod := &corev1.Pod{}

	err := i.decoder.Decode(req, pod)
	if err != nil {
		return admission.Errored(http.StatusBadRequest, err)
	}

    //Insert mutation/validation logic here

    //BRANCH
    //Block A contains the boiler plate logic for patching a mutation
    //Block B contains the boilder plate logic for 

    //BLOCK A
	marshaledPod, err := json.Marshal(pod)
	if err != nil {
		return admission.Errored(http.StatusInternalServerError, err)
	}

    return admission.PatchResponseFromRaw(req.Object.Raw, marshaledPod)
    
    //BLOCK B
    if FAILURE_CONDITION {
		return admission.Denied(fmt.Sprintf("reason for failure"))
	}

    return admission.Allowed("")
    
    //END BRANCH
}

// podInteraction implements inject.Client.
// A client will be automatically injected.

// InjectClient injects the client.
func (i *podInteraction) InjectClient(c client.Client) error {
	i.client = c
	return nil
}

// podInteraction implements admission.DecoderInjector.
// A decoder will be automatically injected.

// InjectDecoder injects the decoder.
func (i *podInteraction) InjectDecoder(d *admission.Decoder) error {
	i.decoder = d
	return nil
}

```

### User facing usage (if needed)

> My suggested method for interacting with this feature is to have a command in the osdk which can be run after generating the base operator. The new command `$ operator-sdk generate webhook` will write the files cmd/manager/osdk-webhook.go, cmd/manager/mutationwebhook.go, and cmd/manager/validationwebhook.go

Reviewer 2: Could we have these files live in the users webhook package. e.g. `pkg/webhook/validationwebhook.go` and so on. This will make it easier to migrate to kubebuilder as they have only one `main.go` file that lives in the [root of the project.](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/tree/ba0d56052ea77afd0d7fa0a9d2a3b923cdadb307/testdata/project-v2)

> My suggested method for interacting with this feature is to have a command in the osdk which can be run after generating the base operator. The new command `$ operator-sdk generate webhook` will write the files cmd/manager/osdk-webhook.go, cmd/manager/mutationwebhook.go, and cmd/manager/validationwebhook.go

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
My suggested method for interacting with this feature is to have a command in the osdk which can be run after generating the base operator. The new command `$ operator-sdk generate webhook` will write the files `cmd/manager/osdk-webhook.go`, `cmd/manager/mutationwebhook.go`, and `cmd/manager/validationwebhook.go`.
```

Reviewer 4: @theishshah For operators with multiple APIs, we need to be able to support multiple webhooks. Consider the following scenario:

1. User runs `operator-sdk new my-operator`

    Right now, this scaffolds out a `main.go` and some boilerplate in `pkg/apis` and `pkg/controllers` for future calls to `operator-sdk add api` and `operator-sdk add controller`, respectively.

2. User runs `operator-sdk up local`

    This will compile and run successfully but nothing happens since we have no controllers or APIs

3. User runs:
    -  `operator-sdk add api --api-verison=example.com/v1alpha1 --kind MyDatabase`
    -  `operator-sdk add api --api-verison=example.com/v1alpha1 --kind MyWebApp`
    -  `operator-sdk add controller --api-verison=example.com/v1alpha1 --kind MyDatabase`
    -  `operator-sdk add controller --api-verison=example.com/v1alpha1 --kind MyWebApp`

    None of these commands modify anything in `cmd/manager`. Instead the scaffolded files register themselves via the functions created previously by `operator-sdk new` in `pkg/apis` and `pkg/controller`. Now, when running `operator-sdk up local`, these APIs and controllers are picked up and CRs are reconciled.

4. Now the user wants to add some webhooks. Going along with this pattern, that probably means something like a `operator-sdk add webhook` command that takes:

    - `--api-version` and `--kind` so that we know where to create the file(s) that define the webhooks for a specific type.
    - `--webhook-type <validating|mutating|conversion>` so that we know which types of webhooks to create (maybe we have one file per type?)

5. The user runs the following to create two webhooks:
    - `operator-sdk add webhook --api-verison=example.com/v1alpha1 --kind MyDatabase --webhook-type=mutating`
    - `operator-sdk add webhook --api-verison=example.com/v1alpha1 --kind MyWebApp --webhook-type=validating`

    These, perhaps, would end up creating:
    - `pkg/apis/example/v1alpha1/mydatabase_mutating_webhook.go`
    - `pkg/apis/example/v1alpha1/mywebapp_validating_webhook.go`
 

As discussed offline, it would be really helpful to include links in the proposal that contain examples, types, functions, etc. provided by controller-runtime that we intend to use. That would give reviewers more context about the proposal.

Flags

> * `--port` int - Port to start webhook server on

Reviewer 2: These flags are new flags for `operator-sdk` if I understand correctly but as part of what command?

* `--cert-dir` string - Certificate directory

### Observations and open questions

> [Here](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk-samples/pull/63) is an example of the planned implementation on the alpha version of controller runtime (out of date, currently being re-implemented with new/updated design). 

Reviewer 2: As this is the proposal, not sure the out of date part belongs here. You can just leave a comment in the PR for that note.

[Goals](#Goals)
[Design overview](#Design_overview)
[User facing usage](#User_facing_usage)
[Observations and open questions](#Observations_and_open_questions)

### Background

The upcoming stable version of controller runtime has support for running a webhook server and having webhooks to mutate or validate pods. The mutation webhook can change various attributes of a pod, and the validation webhook can read pod attributes and allow/deny a pod to run based on this information. 

### Goals

The goal of this proposal is to add the abilty for users to quickly add a webhook server and only implement the validation/mutation logic for their webhooks.

### Design overview

All of the necesary files and changes for the generated operator occur in the cmd/manager/ directory. The code to create and register the server is in the main.go file and can be completely generated with no additional input needed from the user. In addition the osdk will provide 2 files, 1 each for validation and mutation webhooks. These will have a template Handle function in which the user can define the desired behavior for their pod validation/mutation logic. 

### User facing usage (if needed)

> My suggested method for interacting with this feature is to have a command in the osdk which can be run after generating the base operator. The new command `generate webhook` will write the files cmd/manager/main.go, cmd/manager/mutationwebhook.go, and cmd/manager/validationwebhook.go

Reviewer 4: @theishshah Have you had a chance to think about some of the improvements we discussed offline? If I recall, I think we talked about:
- Supporting a webhook per API
- Designing the webhook support such that the user's `main.go` file does not need to be changed to add new webhook servers.

Also, would you mind adding more detail to this proposal doc?
- Will there be a new SDK subcommand to scaffold webhooks and if so, what flags will it have. Descriptions of all of those would be nice to have documented here for discussion (and will make it easy to drop into the real docs when the proposal is approved)
- Can you embed example project layout changes and scaffold snippets for the major places we're proposing to change? Basically, when someone runs the above subcommand, what will we create, and how will it hook into the user's `main.go`?

Reviewer 2: Agree with @joelanford on the last two points ^

### Observations and open questions

> [Here](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk-samples/pull/63) is an example of the planned implementation on the alpha version of controller runtime. 

Reviewer 2: While I like having a working example, can you include the code parts roughly in this proposal?
